well Ramy curri is distinguished public
policy fellow at the American University
of Beirut he joins us from Washington DC
welcome to the program in terms of the
discussions then what are the main
stumbling blocks that would need to be
addressed before any deal could be
made uh the main stumbling blocks are
the ones that have always been there
from the beginning which is that neither
side the Israelis uh nor Hamas wants to
U concede anything to the other side um
and neither of them are willing to
unilaterally concede um anything they're
willing to make Mutual concessions if
they both gain what is critical for them
that hasn't happened yet they did have
that initial pause and they released
some hostages and prisoners of some U I
don't know it was about two months ago
whatever it was but the um the big uh
goal there at after the Hamas wants a
permanent ceasefire all the Israelis out
of Gaza the Palestinians being able to
move back to the north anywhere they
want and full uh resumption of
humanitarian Aid as it was uh before
October uh 7 um so the Israelis want the
hostages released they want to make sure
that they're not going to be attacked
again from
Gaza uh and they they say they want to
destroy Hamas uh they're probably going
to get the first two things they want
but it's unlikely that Hamas can be
destroyed because Hamas is really a
sentiment it's an idea that has
transformed into a movement but that
movement has transformed itself over the
years and others were there before it
and after it so you can't really destroy
Hamas but you have to take away the
reasons why a Hamas is needed and that's
the Israeli occupation and the
subjugation of the Palestinians so
they're getting close to the point where
both sides are going to be able to get
what they say are their critical demands
and if they can both get them
simultaneously then you could have a
really impressive agreement probably in
two stages as they're thinking now and
all of this though in a shadow of
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu consistently warning of a
fullscale assault on the southern Gaza
City of
Rafa well this is part of the
negotiations you know you have to keep
the pressure up on the other side you've
got to keep the threats up you've got to
make it uh seem that you're not bothered
you can stay like this for another year
the reality though what's fascinating
here is the involvement of the third
party which is the United States this is
a war between the United States and
Israel on one side and Hamas and some
other groups on the Palestinian side the
United States is really worried about
many things they were terrified of the
Iranian Israeli exchange of um fire
weapon you know attacks between them
even though they were both controlled
they were terrified of a wider war in
the region what the impact of this on
oil flows on investment on global trade
would be a catastrophe the United States
government uh led by the Democrats and
Biden are terrified of the impact of
this war on their election prospects in
November U at poll yesterday showed that
81% of young people all people not just
rats 81% of Americans between the ages
of 18 and 34 think that uh the war is
being badly managed and they disapprove
of the way the war is going and American
support for it this is a huge huge thing
for American politicians and they're
also finding that they're not being
isolated around the world because you
can't isolate them they're so strong but
they don't have the same clout that they
that they used to people are looking to
China to uh Russia to India to the
bricks to other people for strategic
relationships as well as Americans so
there's huge fear in the US the Israelis
have been worried in the last few days
about the international criminal court
issuing uh summons indictments against
Israeli leaders for war crimes as well
as probably against Hamas people and
Hamas is worried that it's U not really
getting the kind of support it was
expecting from Arab or Iranian or other
supporters in the region and that's
pretty much on its own and and you know
Gaz has been pretty much destroyed so
all three of the main players have
tremendous pressures on them to to make
a permanent ceasefire get the best deal
they can get and then move on to a
permanent political resolution if
possible but that's that's stage two
which is in the future we leave it there
Ramy kurri we very much appreciate your
insights thank you for joining us here
in Al jaer
make sure to subscribe to our channel to
get the latest news from Al jaaz